# An Introduction to OGC API - Environmental Data Retrieval

## Introduction

OGC API - Environmental Data Retrieval is a standard that provides a
family of lightweight interfaces to access Environmental Data resources.
The standard, which is also called the Environmental Data Retrieval
(EDR) API, addresses two fundamental operations; discovery and query.
Discovery operations allow the API to be interrogated to determine its
capabilities and retrieve information (metadata) about this distribution
of a resource. This includes the API definition of the server as well as
metadata about the Environmental Data resources provided by the server.
Query operations allow Environmental Data resources to be retrieved from
the underlying data store based upon simple selection criteria, defined
by this standard and selected by the client.

!!! note
    This tutorial module is not intended to be a replacement to the actual
    **OGC API - Environmental Data Retrieval** standard. The tutorial
    intentionally focuses on a subset of capabilities in order to get the
    student started with using the standard. Please refer to the **OGC API -
    Environmental Data Retrieval** standard for additional detail.

# Background

History

:   Version 1.0.0 was published on 2021-08-13.

Versions

:   **OGC API - Environmental Data Retrieval** version 1.0.0 is the
    current latest version

Test Suite

:   

    A draft executable test suite is available for:

    :   -   [OGC API - Environmental Data
            Retrieval](https://github.com/opengeospatial/ets-ogcapi-edr10)

Implementations

:   Implementations can be found on the OGC Product Database here
    \<<http://www.opengeospatial.org/resource/products/byspec>\>

## Usage

**OGC API - Environmental Data Retrieval** provides a family of
lightweight query interfaces to access spatio-temporal data resources by
requesting data at a Position, within an Area, along a Trajectory or
through a Corridor. A spatio-temporal data resource is a collection of
spatio-temporal data that can be sampled using the EDR query pattern
geometries.

The standard provides a standard interface for requesting vector
geospatial data consisting of geographic features and their properties.
The benefit of this is that client applications can request source data
from multiple implementations of the API, and then render the data for
display or process the data further as part of a workflow. The standard
enables the data to be accessed consistently with other data. Feature
properties encoded using common data types such as text strings, date
and time can also be accessed consistently.

## Relation to other OGC Standards

-   OGC API-Features: The EDR API is completely compatible with OGC
    API --- Features --- Part 1: Core (OGC 17-069r3), in that it
    supports Collections and Items. It extends the Collection
    functionality by allowing 'Instances', a form of 'collection of
    collections'. The EDR API also supports the retrieval of
    spatiotemporal data by named location as well as coordinates.
-   Moving Features: The Moving Features Standards are concerned with
    things that move along a trajectory, and simultaneously change their
    orientation through rigid body rotation. The EDR API does not have
    the concept of orientation, or foliation or prisms. Moving Features
    and EDR API do share a common conceptual definition, from ISO, of a
    Trajectory, but the Moving Features Standards encode trajectories in
    GML, CSV and Moving Features JSON, whereas the EDR API encodes
    trajectories in WKT.
-   Web Coverage Service (WCS) and Coverage Implementation Schema (CIS):
    The primary messaging mechanism of the EDR API is JSON, including
    CoverageJSON, over HTTP(S). Implementations of the EDR API are
    described using the OpenAPI V3.0 specification. The EDR API is
    consistent with the WCS and CIS standards but does not require the
    end user or developer to use the terms Domain and RangeSet. The EDR
    API can also be used to generate a single query against a collection
    of coverages, providing the data coordinate reference systems are
    consistent.
-   The OGC SensorThings API: SensorThings API follows OData's
    specification for requesting entities. In contrast, the EDR API
    makes use of the OpenAPI V3.0 specification for describing resource
    paths, query options, JSON schema, and other aspects. Further, the
    EDR API allows for retrieval of coverage data and HTML responses --
    both of which are not supported by the SensorThings API.
-   Sensor Observation Service (SOS): The EDR API allows for retrieval
    of coverage data and HTML responses -- both of which are not
    supported by the SOS standard. Further, SOS implementations use the
    GetCapabilities operation for providing descriptions of available
    resources. In contrast, the EDR API uses OpenAPI definition
    documents for describing available interfaces.

# Overview of Resources

**OGC API - Environmental Data Retrieval Standard** defines the
resources listed in the following table.

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Resource                     Path                                            Purpose
  ---------------------------- ----------------------------------------------- ----------------
  Landing page                 {root}/                                         This is the
                                                                               top-level
                                                                               resource, which
                                                                               serves as an
                                                                               entry point.

  Conformance declaration      {root}/conformance                              This resource
                                                                               presents
                                                                               information
                                                                               about the
                                                                               functionality
                                                                               that is
                                                                               implemented by
                                                                               the server.

  API definition               {root}/api                                      This resource
                                                                               provides
                                                                               metadata about
                                                                               the API itself.
                                                                               Note use of
                                                                               **/api** on the
                                                                               server is
                                                                               optional and the
                                                                               API definition
                                                                               may be hosted on
                                                                               completely
                                                                               separate server

  Collections metadata         {root}/collections                              Metadata
                                                                               describing the
                                                                               collections of
                                                                               data available
                                                                               from this API.

  Single Collection metadata   {root}/collections/{collectionId}               Metadata
                                                                               describing the
                                                                               collection of
                                                                               data which has
                                                                               the unique
                                                                               identifier
                                                                               {collectionId}

  Items metadata               {root}/collections/{collectionId}/items         Retrieve
                                                                               metadata about
                                                                               available items

  Query data                   {root}/collections/{collectionId}/{queryType}   Retrieve data
                                                                               according to the
                                                                               query pattern

  Query instances              {root}/collections/{collectionId}/instances     Retrieve
                                                                               metadata about
                                                                               instances of a
                                                                               collection
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  : Overview of OGC API - Features resources

# Example

This [demonstration server](http://labs.metoffice.gov.uk/edr) publishes
environmental data through an interface that conforms to the OGC API -
Environmental Data Retrieval standard. A client application is available
[here](http://labs.metoffice.gov.uk/edr/static/html/query.html) .

An example request that can be used to retrieve data from the METAR
Observation collection is
[here](http://labs.metoffice.gov.uk/edr/collections/metar_demo/area?coords=POLYGON%20((-0.729139443718437%2050.6050890914524,-0.82028187418325%2052.0290614422956,1.84563421691251%2052.0991020742953,2.09627590069075%2050.8071099463535,-0.729139443718437%2050.6050890914524))&parameter-name=Metar%20observation&datetime=2021-10-03T20:00Z/2021-10-04T03:00Z&crs=CRS84&f=GeoJSON)
.

Note that the response to the request is GeoJSON in this case.

Alternatively, the same data can be retrieved in CoverageJSON format,
through [this
request](http://labs.metoffice.gov.uk/edr/collections/metar_demo/area?coords=POLYGON%20((-0.729139443718437%2050.6050890914524,-0.82028187418325%2052.0290614422956,1.84563421691251%2052.0991020742953,2.09627590069075%2050.8071099463535,-0.729139443718437%2050.6050890914524))&parameter-name=Metar%20observation&datetime=2021-10-03T20:00Z/2021-10-04T03:00Z&crs=CRS84&f=CoverageJSON)
.

Note that this demonstration server offers data from recent
observations, therefore you may need to update the values of the
[datetime]{.title-ref} parameter to the current day in order to access
available METAR observation.
